Preface: Real Talk
The code will always be the easiest part of a coding career.
The more I talked to my friends about their careers, and the more I
progressed in my own career, I increasingly realized that the noncode part of coding was both a hugely important, and under-discussed, topic. It is under-discussed because nobody else is as invested in your career as you are.
And so the idea for this book was born.
There are a lot of books teaching you specifics of frameworks and
languages. There are a lot of books on quitting your job to do your
own thing. There are a lot of books on becoming an engineering
manager. This book is none of those. This is a book about getting coding jobs, and doing well at coding jobs.
That is an ambitious goal, which presents its own problems. It’s
scary writing a career advice book - I’m just one person, and I
haven’t made a career of coaching developers. I can’t guarantee success, and you can’t verify that everything I tell you is right. All I have
is hundreds of hours of listening to people’s stories, and living my
own. I have biases that make my situation different from yours - Iam a US-based, Asian male web developer, seeing decent success after career change at age 30.
But I think the bar is very low. I’ve met with developer career success advisors and read conventional career advice. You deserve a
more intelligent discussion than fits in a 15 minute YouTube video or
yet another Medium blog post. That’s why this is NOT going to be a
conventional career advice book.
This is a linear discussion of Career Guides, followed by a nonlinear
collection of Principles, Strategies, and Tactics - independent
essays of ideas that you may or may not agree with, but are worth
considering anyway. Please skim and skip. This book is a buffet, not
a five course meal. You will see some repeated ideas, because the
ideas are strongly interlinked. Unfortunately we can’t normalize
this; this book isn’t a relational database!
I have designed this book to last. A typical Code Newbie to Senior
Developer journey might take 4-8 years. I want you to discover the
full context of everything I’ve researched, with me as a guide rather
than omniscient narrator. I’ve embraced the digital format, and
made heavy use of links to original sources. Feel free to pause
at any chapter, go down those rabbit holes I lay out for you, and see
for yourself. Don’t try to read this book in one sitting.